feat(efp): add managed inference methodology (#6467)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/environmental-footprint/additional-content/managed-inference-env-footprint.mdx

---
title: Managed Inference footprint calculation

> description: This page explains how Scaleway calculates the environmental footprint of its Managed Inference Product in detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This page explains in detail how Scaleway calculates the environmental footprint of Scaleway's Managed Inference product.
```

> tags: managed Inference environmental-footprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: managed-inference environmental-footprint
```

dates:
  validation: 2026-04-27
  posted: 2026-04-27
---

<Message type="important">

> The calculations on this page take into consideration all the elements described in the [Environmental Footprint calculation breakdown](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/) documentation page. Refer to said page for a full breakdown of the Environmental Footprint calculation performed at Scaleway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The calculations on this page take into consideration all the elements described on the [Environmental Footprint calculation breakdown](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/environmental-footprint-calculator/) page. Refer to said page for a full breakdown of the Environmental Footprint calculation performed at Scaleway.
```

</Message>

## Calculation aspects

> ###Deploy a model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy a model
```

> The environmental footprint of Scaleway's Managed Inference product is calculated by aggregating the impact of all underlying resources dedicated to your inference (instances GPU and all ressources need to make the product work).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The environmental footprint of Scaleway's Managed Inference product is calculated by aggregating the impact of all underlying resources dedicated to your inference (GPU instances and all resources needed to make the product work).
```

> Since Managed Inference are built on top of other Scaleway products (Instances, Block Storage, Object Storage, Kubernetes), our methodology relies on the sum of these individual components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Managed Inference is built on top of other Scaleway products (Instances, Block Storage, Object Storage, Kubernetes), our methodology relies on the sum of these individual components.
```

> Managed Inference carbon footprint is the sum of the impact of: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Managed Inference carbon footprint is the sum of the impact of: 
```

> - **Nodes**: The nodes are based on Scaleway GPU Instances. We apply the [Instance environmental footprint methodology](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/instances-env-footprint/). Each node corresponds to a specific Scaleway Instance type (e.g., a `H100-SXM-4` database node uses a `H100-SXM-4` Instance). If you choose to add several nodes, your inference runs on several nodes. Therefore, the node impact is multiplied my the number of node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Nodes**: The nodes are based on Scaleway GPU Instances. We apply the [Instance environmental footprint methodology](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/instances-env-footprint/). Each node corresponds to a specific Scaleway Instance type (e.g., an `H100-SXM-4` database node uses an `H100-SXM-4` Instance). If you choose to add several nodes, your inference runs on several nodes. Therefore, the node impact is multiplied by the number of nodes.
```

> - **Inference Infrastructur**: To deploy a model on managed inference, we deploy a kubernetes based complex infrastructure, wich nodes are attached. All elements needed to deploy this infrastruture are take into account on our calculation.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Inference infrastructure**: To deploy a model on Managed Inference, we deploy a Kubernetes-based complex infrastructure, to which the nodes are attached. All elements needed to deploy this infrastructure are taken into account in our calculation.   
```

- **Control plane**: The control plane represents the shared infrastructure managed by Scaleway to orchestrate, monitor, and maintain your managed inference. We allocate a fixed share of the global control plane's power consumption and manufacturing impact to each active database node.

> ###Import a model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Import a model
```

> When you import a model, it is stored in [object storage](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/environmental-footprint/additional-content/object-storage-env-footprint/). The size, and therefore the impact, varies depending on the size of the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you import a model, it is stored in [Object Storage](/environmental-footprint/additional-content/object-storage-env-footprint/). The size, and therefore the impact, varies depending on the size of the model.
```
